But that's it today. Um, he'll probably
do some back No, no, he's going to do
some back down work. But, um, all right,
let's chill. Right.
Okay. Okay. Today, I'm going to show you
how Vasa medium to large Vasa. Not quite
big yet, but he's getting there. He's
going to prepare for a 440 kg squat. And
if he doesn't squat 440 kg, he's off the
team. That's the rules. Uh, but just not
today. That's what he's prepping for.
What's your best squatting comp?
425. 425 kg. Get this. That was his
second attempt. And it was like
debatable. Was there more in the tank?
And we kind of came to the conclusion
there might be. But is that going to
negatively impact his bench press and
his deadlift? So, we chose to not
attempt 440. But he's had a bone to pick
with that number specifically for a long
time. Now, we're 22 weeks out from his
competition. and we're going to show you
uh it's actually his second session back
with knee wraps. And what we're going to
do is teach you the exact process that
we go through to condition a body to
handle and learn the skill of knee
wrapped squats. It's not just as simple
as wrapping your knees and you can
automatically squat more. There's a big
skill component to it as well as a
conditioning component to wearing knee
wraps. So, if you're at home and you've
wondered, do I wear knee wraps or not?
Well, this one is for you. This is where
you're going to learn the art of
introducing knee wraps to your squat
session. So, Vas is going to be
squatting today. Uh, on the agenda is
300 kg for two sets of five. I'm going
to be benching. My goal today is 170 kg.
I'm looking for around eight reps. Um,
and I've had a whole month off
competition style benching to do my
bodybuilder style and also give my pec a
little bit of time to recover. But what
we also have is big Reesei, little
Reesei
is doing his rehab session as well. He
decided to be an arm wrestler to his
bicep 14 weeks ago and now he's going to
be attempting 180 kg bench press 14
weeks later. And if he can't do that,
turn off the team. He's off the team.
That's the rules. I didn't make it. Uh
it's just what it is. So, let's get
stuck into the session and I'll see you
guys during the session.
[Laughter]
All right, bench press. Three tips for
the bench press. If you just do these
three things, you're going to bench
press a lot more. And it goes like this.
Foot position first. So, I'm going to do
the next three the next three sets. I'm
going to talk about one step each.
Right? So the foot position for me, what
I want with my feet is behind my hips on
the balls of the feet and push down. So
it's like a lot happening with that one
queue, but that's it. Feet, right? So
the way do I the way that I do that is I
slide back so that I can get my feet
back far enough. Right? If I'm just
laying here and I bring my feet back, I
can't get them as far back. So that's
why I bring my body back so that I can
wedge my feet slightly further back. I'm
the balls of my feet and pushing the
heels downwards and I maintain that
downwards pressure. I'm looking for
about a 45°ree
angle on the sole of my foot, right? And
I want to maintain that downwards
pressure. So that's what initiates my
arch, right? So I'm not relaxing on the
feet. I'm not treading through the balls
of my feet. I'm pushing my heels down.
And that's Q number one.
Just focus on the feet.
Okay. So, that's tip number one. On the
next set, I'm going to go through the
second most important tip. Tip number
two is shoulder position. So, for grip,
I'm going to grab the bar with my
powerlifter grip, which is index finger
on the outer ring of a powerlifting bar.
But that's not for everybody. So, you
might be a little bit closer. You might
find that uncomfortable. But the
shoulder position remains the same.
That's why I'm not going to talk about
grip. So the shoulder position for a
powerlifting style bench press is to
pull your shoulder blades back and down
and keep them there the entire press. A
way of thinking about that is the bottom
position of a lat pull down. So if you
can imagine a lat pull down starting
from a stretch position and pulling the
the handles to your chest, squeezing
your shoulder blades back and down. That
position is where I'm recommending you
hold the bench press from start to
finish. And I'm going to show you that
in action now paired with tip number
one, which was the foot position. And so
we get our feet set and then we get our
shoulder blades back and down and we
maintain those positions. We don't move.
We maintain that tension from start to
finish.
So first I set my feet balls of the feet
pushing the heels down. So the sole of
my foot is 45°.
Now shoulder blades back and down. And
I'm going to maintain that position from
start to finish.
[Music]
Next set is going to be my top set and
I'll introduce you the third one which
is a very very very easy one. I may as
well tell it to you right now. Hold your
breath from start to finish. So feet
back and heels down. That's your legs.
Shoulders back and down is upper body.
But what joins that is your core. And if
you're breathing and this isn't braced
well, then you've lost that connection.
So strong upper body, strong lower body,
they need to push together like this.
And if that's loose, you lose that's
energy leakage. So that needs to be
tight. So if you're holding your breath,
that's how it pairs all three of those
tips together. So three tips for that
bench press. If you do that, you're
going to bench press a lot more than
what your girlfriend does, which is
really nice.
Yeah. Congratulations. You're welcome.
You're welcome. You You will feel like a
big man. Now, the highlight of the show.
You better make it a highlight today,
Vasa. He's going to be squatting. This
is his warm-up sets. He started with an
empty barbell. This is 80 kg, and we're
going to work up to 300 kg. If you
notice, he's got knee sleeves on now,
but I would say he'll do a few more
warm-up sets with just knee sleeves. By
the time he gets to about 180 kg, so
it's just about like just over 50% of
your working weight. I want to start
introducing light knee wraps. Some
people introduce their knee wraps a
little bit later when they feel like
they need it. That's right. He doesn't
need it at 180 kg. He can do it very,
very easily. It's not about needing it.
It's about familiarizing yourself with
the feeling of knee wraps because it's a
slightly different technique to what
he'll be using with the knee sleeves.
For the knee wraps to work, you have to
push into the knee wraps. So, if all he
does is sleeves up until his top set,
which he's strong enough to do, the knee
wraps are just going to be
uncomfortable and strange and it's not
going to teach him the pattern that's
needed on his top sets. So, another
warm-up set, and then after that, we'll
start wrapping his knees gently.
Who do you think I am? All right, so
this is going to be my my top set.
All I want to do is one top set just to
feel it. This is my reintroduction back
into
uh powerlifting style bench press. Even
though I did it last week with 160 for
um 170 kg,
if you don't get it, are you on the
bench? I don't think I can be teaming.
Yeah, once again, I didn't make the
rules,
but but that's what they are. We must
abide by them. So, I'm going to get
Vaset to unrackck me. a disadvantage of
you. If I don't get it, I'll be blaming
it on the unrackck. If you don't get it,
Vass is off the team. Vass is off the
team
coming in. That's
kill.
Come on. Five.
Nice.
Good one.
Good one. Pretty happy with that.
actually good unrackck as well. You
know, I know he knows how to do it. Of
course he does. But usually I get people
to warm up the unrackck just to
refamiliarize themselves with, you know,
the exact position that I'm going to be
doing. So, he came when it was needed.
One set of eight. That's um I don't know
if I said that was the goal. Um but I
kind of had a feeling that that's where
I'd be at. And 170 for eight is a pretty
good position. I believe I'm at about
210 kg for one. And that kind of adds up
for me. I couldn't tell you what
percentage that is, but I just know from
my history if I want 210, I need to be
getting, you know, 170 for 8,
180 for six,
200 for two, uh, like those are all the
numbers. And then I'll be going 210. So,
at the end of this phase, which is going
to be in three more weeks from now, I'll
be going for a 210 one. Uh, anyhow,
that's my top set. and then I'm going to
move on to a whole bunch of dumbbells.
Uh but for now, I'm going to show you
how I wrap Vas's knees for his first
set. So, it's going to be 180 kilograms
and uh we start gentle and I'm going to
give you a step-by-step tour to how we
do that. All right, so here's a few
hacks. I like to have these pre-rolled
but not pre-tensioned. A lot of people
like them pre-tensioned, but I don't. I
like to apply the attention the tension
um manually with the exact amount of
tension that I need. So people do it
beforehand uh to help them get it
tighter. I don't feel that it does. Now
check this for a hack. Water on your
hands,
right? And even here like this is the
best grip. Some people use chalk.
I think that that's the best way to get
a hold of it. So check this. Right. So
that's the center of the wrap. I'm going
to put that center of the wrap exactly
at the base of his kneecap or his
patella. Right? So that point is exactly
there. Right? Now I get the lifter to
hold tight. So I get the first
revolution and now we're on. If you go
too low here, you end up wrapping over
his calf and it can change the way that
it moves and you can tear your calf this
way. Some people have experienced that.
Now what I do is I'm going to do four
revolutions up.
Four revolutions up. That's decent
coverage. And that's the max thickness
that I'll need for him. Uh, in fact,
that's quite a comfortable thickness.
I'd even go a little bit lower as it
gets tighter and tighter so it's more
condensed exactly over the knee joint.
But for now, four revs up, X across the
knee. So his kneecap is right in the
middle there. And then I'm just going to
tie off here. So that's a total of six
revolutions.
That's
quite comfortable.
And let's do that again in real time. So
the center of the wrap goes exactly at
the base of his patella.
Get him to hold onto it. First
revolution locks it off. Four
revolutions up.
X across the patella
and then tie off.
That feel
amazing. So this should be Jesus.
This should be pretty comfortable for
Vasa that's not tight,
but that's the goal if you're learning
how to wrap your knees. And this is
exactly what I did when I first started
was I thought the tighter the better,
which is what the best competition. I've
got my cameraman is nodding while we're
saying this. Of course, I'm talking
about knee wraps. Um, yes, it is better
when it's tighter. However, you need to
condition yourself to be able to handle
that. No, just don't rush. Two reps.
Bang. Bang. One rep. Reset.
[Music]
Wait. Big breath.
Good.
Good. All right. So, that's a very
light, comfortable, easy wrap. And then
every set that he goes up, so that was
180. We'll probably go up 50 kg jumps.
He will, well, I will wrap it an extra
revolution tighter. So that's six
revolutions.
The next one will be seven revolutions.
And then I get slightly tighter every
single set. And then it'll be the max
tension on his top set, which is still
not as tight as what we're going to get
to um on his competition day. So because
he hasn't used knee wraps in some time,
the skin on his knees will feel very
uncomfortable if I just wrap it as hard
as I can. And what happens is if you go
too tight, you kind of come in and all
you're thinking about is the pain around
your knees and you can't really think
about what you really need to do uh for
the squat. So, always don't ever let the
comfort or the discomfort interfere with
your lifting technique. All right, next
set. Um I'm going to go do some
dumbbells and then Reese is going to go
and do a set of bench press um for his
rehabilitation. All right, so we got 140
kg on the bar for Ree. He's doing a
slightly different technique to me. He's
not doing the powerlifting style. He's
doing the style that I did last week,
which was bodybuilding style. Uh his
goal is rehabilitation. So, he wants to
use his muscles to lift the weight. When
I do a powerlifting technique, I'm
trying to maximize my levers. So, it's a
very different mechanism. So, have a
look at his technique. It's slightly
different to what I'm teaching you. Now,
um back to bodybuilding. This is what I
would use if I was to focus on building
pec muscles. So, he's got his feet flat.
His grip is not the maximum legal width
grip. So, he's got pinky on the line.
Okay.
He's still pulling his shoulder blades
back and down.
How's that feel? Easy peasy. Easy peasy.
Um, do you want to tell us uh how's it
feeling? So, 14 weeks in, is that right?
14 weeks post surgery. 14 and a half
posts surgery. Uh the first 12 weeks was
slow and dealing with nerve pain, other
things like that. But now it's he tore
his bicep, just so that you know, he
tore his bicep on that side off the
bone. So I had to get surgery
reattached, but it's starting to feel
good. Starting to feel less painful and
uh start pushing a little bit. All
right. So how did that feel? Just any
pain? No, none. Zero pain. A little bit
of uh nerve discomfort. No, it's just it
doesn't have much feeling. A little
numb. So getting the control is
difficult, but it's starting to feel
better.
Next set 160. And that'll be his last
warm up. And then we'll see if you can
get 180 for one rep. Right. I have to
otherwise off the team.
Control. Control. Speed.
Weights. Control.
Speed. Good.
Good.
Hey, what are you thinking? Um, not
much.
Not much.
Not thinking much. Uh, you know, this is
the funny thing about when your goal is
to squat 300 kg for five. Um, this is
230. So, he's asking me how I feel about
it. It's like,
we don't know yet. We'll get more of an
understanding on his next warm-up set.
So, so for this one, I didn't wrap it
very tight. Um, and he's not really
switched on that much, so I don't expect
it to be moving like lightning. Um, but
the next one, I do want it to move
better than that. So, that's uh when I'm
going to have an opinion on what it
looks like. So, next set. So, that was
230. Next one, we go 270. And then, uh,
that's the last warm up.
Good. Thank you, sir. Good.
You know what to do.
Yeah. Nice. Yeah, bro. Very easy. Very
easy.
Yeah, man. I think that looked like you
had 200 in the tank. What do you reckon?
But that's the goal, right? Leave more
in the tank. Take more next week. So,
what's next? You go 190 next week, then
200 type of thing. I think so. 10 until
I get to 200 and then I'll probably
start following a plan. Yeah. Any pain?
Just a little bit of weakness. All
right. So, that's um bit of a lesson
right now while he's rehabbing. It's
pretty hard to follow a plan. I'll tell
you now, um, as like Reese is an elite
lifter. He's bench pressed 260 kgs
before. So, he's at the position where
he can kind of be intuitive with his
training. So, there's a huge discussion
around whether you should program or
not, whether you can train intuitively
or not. You can train intuitively, but
the way that you build that intuition is
through years and years of experience at
a very high level. If you're a beginner,
using intuition is not maybe not the
nicest idea. You don't just skip that
part, right? You got to kind of follow
like this is where following some type
of a plan until you learn what plan it
was that worked in the first place type
of thing. Um, so right now there's no
program. Not really. It's a loose plan.
I kind of set myself weekly challenges.
Uh, just to get myself closer back to
where I want to be and then once I get
to a point where I feel like, you know,
I'm healthy enough to consistently
follow a plan and push harder each week,
then I'll do that. But right now, I'm
just getting some weeks are really quick
to progress. Yeah, I can be able to
train it up until
now. So, you can see the loads coming
back, baby. Yeah. Nice. So, after big
loads, that's always the goal. Um,
what's next? Are you going to do back
down work or or walk away? I'll do one
back down set today. Uh, I'll do all my
accessory work after dumbbell pressing,
back work, triceps, etc. But I'll do one
back down set, maybe 140 kilos for an AM
wrap. Yeah. See where I'm at. Give a bit
of a challenge. Aim for 12 to 15 reps.
Good one. This is my accessory. So, it's
one top set on the bench press. Um, I'm
still not going to go crazy. I think 65
kg for today is a decent number. I'm
going to do two sets of this. Uh, I
should be able to do around 10 reps. Uh,
let's see how it goes.
The hardest part is getting it off the
rack.
Well, actually re- racking will be.
All right, check this out for a tip for
your dumbbell presses. Have it high up
on the thigh when you want to do a flat
bench press. So, when it's on an
incline, it's a different rule, but for
flat, have it high up on your thigh so
you can easily hand it to yourself.
[Music]
You know, that's the the psychology of
it. I told myself 10 reps and for some
reason it was hard on the exact 10 10th
rep and it looked like I probably
wouldn't have been able to do 11. I
don't know if that's a psychological
thing or it was just right on the money.
10 reps is all I had. Anyway, one more
set. Yeah. So, you know, good is
subjective because this is pretty firm.
I'd say this is high quality, but
there's a lot thicker than this as well,
which I find too thick. But thinner than
this, a lot of people say the thinner
ones you can get more revolutions, but
for me, those thinner ones I feel is
very
too too thin. So, this is an a lily
bridge wrap from Pioneer. These are my
favorite, but a lot of brands do
fantastic wraps,
but these are definitely a heavy duty
wrap.
As you can see,
I am making this real tight.
That's eight revolutions in comp. He
gets to nine. So, he goes even tighter
than this in comp.
But that's the tightest knee wrap he's
felt I know for a long time. You know,
Baz is a tough guy.
He doesn't say anything. He knows what
it's about. But I can tell you now, it's
probably a little bit uncomfortable.
So, he's got earphones in. He can't hear
me. But what I'm doing now is I'm just
going to line him up to make sure it's
centered on his back.
And then once he's centered on his back,
I'm going to run out and Well, actually,
maybe can you unrackck from there and
still record?
Good one.
You know, you never know.
So, maybe I'll I'll run around. Yeah.
I don't I mean I don't think Vasa needs
a spot for this, but you never know.
He's a strong boy.
All right, let's go, Vasa. Come on.
Yep.
Come on.
Yes.
Out. Come on.
Out. One more.
Out. Out. Yes. Walk in. Walk in.
Good. Good. Nice. Nice.
You're good.
You're all good. Yeah, man. Okay, that
was Sorry, that was seemingly a max
effort set. Um, which tells me that's it
today. Um, he'll probably do some back
No, no, he's going to do some back down
work. But, um, all right, let's chill.
Right.
Okay. Okay.
Okay. This is live. He's just done.
Imagine that. He's just done a set of
five and we're getting him to lay down.
So, I want you guys to see the effort
that he's putting in. So, I'll tell you
now, when I had a look at that first
rep, that's not how it was meant to go
today. That first rep should have really
popped. Um, and it's not meant to be max
effort, but that was absolutely max
effort. We were supposed to do two sets
of five. Um, but we we're not going to.
So, one set of five. That's his top set.
I'm going to give him about 15 minutes
to to chill out down here. That's
totally fine. And then we're going to do
some accessory exercises which are going
to be a lot more low impact. Uh but for
now, um that's the way the cookie
crumbles. And I reckon uh you'll see him
next week and he'll probably be doing
310 for five a lot easier than that.
That's just how it goes. Sometimes he's
performing at a higher level. Uh
sometimes fatigue gets the better of
him. Humans don't progress linearly. Um
but it's okay. He got five out and that
was mental strength that got it up.
Physically I I think he just knows like
I can manhandle five reps, but that's
not how five reps should be moving for
someone whose goal is to squat 440 kg in
in 22 weeks or so. But anyway, no need
to apologize. That's how it goes. I
think that was uh a good set and a good
demonstration of work ethic from the big
guy. Uh accessory exercises up next.
Nice.
Nice, man. Good job, bro.
Heels off. Yeah. Yeah. So, you've seen
me do this before. This is a quad
dominant leg press, right? And I like to
do high reps on this. So, I've got Vasar
doing sets of 20. This is his second
set, and he's going to do one more after
this, which he's not very happy about,
but anyway. So, check this. What makes
it quad dominant? He's pushing through
the balls of his feet, and he's allowing
his heels to lift off. That's totally
fine. What we're after is maximal knee
bend. His hamstring presses against his
calf. the regular leg press, uh, there's
not as much knee bends, so it's more hip
dominant. But why do I do quad dominant?
Because we just did a ton of hip
dominant squats, which is low bar with
knee wraps. So, this is where this
exercise complements the muscle groups
that he's neglected in the main
movement. So, that's very hip dominant,
the squat that he did. Now, this is quad
dominant. Three sets of 20 and that's
the end of his session. So, uh, he's
just got one more set. Um, high five.
See that? I said high five, and he gave
me a fist bump. Haha,
silly boy. Anyway, uh so that's our
session. You've seen one top set and one
back down set, but we've all done well,
he's about to do his third. Uh actually,
I did two back down sets. Reese did one
back down set. Um and I hope you enjoyed
our session. Uh and you're going to see
more of us next week. Maybe you can put
in the comments anything you'd like to
see, anything you'd like to learn about,
and I will do my best to bring it for
you guys. Thanks for joining. See you
guys. Like this video. Like this video.
Like me.